---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Defining Project Structure with Java Models

In the Ooml project, the structure and organization of the codebase are defined using various Java models. These models
provide a standardized way to represent different elements of the project, such as classes, attributes, constructors,
parameters, packages, types, and methods. Let's explore each of these models and their significance in shaping the
project structure.

## 1. Class

A class is a blueprint for creating objects in Java. It encapsulates data (attributes) and behaviors (methods) that
define the characteristics and actions of the objects. Classes serve as the building blocks of the project, allowing you
to define and instantiate multiple instances of the same structure.

## 2. Attribute

Attributes represent the data associated with a class. They define the characteristics and state of objects created from
the class. Attributes can have different data types, such as integers, strings, booleans, or custom-defined types. They
hold the values that describe the objects' properties and contribute to their overall behavior.

## 3. Constructor

Constructors are special methods within a class that are used to initialize objects. They are called when an instance of
the class is created. Constructors define the initial state of the objects by assigning values to their attributes and
preparing them for use. They play a crucial role in object creation and initialization.

## 4. Parameter

Parameters are variables used in method and constructor declarations to receive values from the caller. They allow for
passing data to methods and constructors and enable the execution of specific operations based on the provided values.
Parameters define the input requirements for methods and constructors, making them versatile and adaptable to different
scenarios.

## 5. Package

Packages are used to organize classes into logical groups. They provide a way to manage and categorize related classes
within the project. Packages help in structuring the codebase, improving code readability, and avoiding naming
conflicts. They offer a hierarchical structure for managing project components.

## 6. Type

Types represent the data types used in the project. They define the nature of the data that can be stored in variables,
passed as parameters, or returned from methods. Types include primitive types like int, boolean, and char, as well as
custom-defined types like classes, interfaces, and enums. They ensure type safety and facilitate proper handling of data
within the project.

## 7. Method

Methods define the behavior and actions that can be performed on objects. They encapsulate reusable code and allow for
executing specific operations. Methods can manipulate object state, return values, and interact with other methods and
objects. They play a vital role in implementing functionality and providing the interface for interacting with objects.

By defining these models for the project structure, you establish a clear and organized framework for developing and
maintaining your code. They promote code reusability, encapsulation, and proper abstraction, leading to cleaner, more
modular, and scalable codebases.

In the next sections, we will delve deeper into each of these models, exploring their syntax, usage, and best practices
within the context of the Ooml project.

Let's proceed to explore the intricacies of these models and unlock their potential in shaping your project structure.
